Today's tutorial will be split into two parts the first part is for those of you who install their skill
server on your own on your home computer or on your work computer.
Doesn't matter as long as you installed a school server on your own and it's your own Asgill server
.
You can do whatever you want with it.
And the second part will be for those of you who are doing these exercises at work on the work school
server.
So let's get on with the first part here we've got our skills are which we've just installed we're connecting
to it.
And now if we're going to databases you will see here in the object Explorer window on the left you
will see three different items.
So one is a folder with system databases.
We're not going to look at that for now.
And then there's two more databases which are report based databases.
So we're also not going to look at them.
What this is showing us is that there is no actual database for us to work in at this stage.
And right now we're going to create one.
And if you install the SQL Server on your own it is your own instance of a skill server.
It is very easy to create a database you just right click databases and you click new database.
You get this one over here and you give your database a name up at the top you will call it D and D
S training as in data science training.
OK.
And there we go.
So that's our database created right there.
So before we continue I just wanted to say that with this window the Microsoft Eskdale Server Management
Studio we're not going into a lot of detail right now about what means what and where you can click
and where you can click that's just because we will do that further down in the course when we're talking
about a skill scripting right now.
Just please follow along what I'm doing and that will allow you to assess whether or not you're a secure
server is ready and you've got a database that you will be able to work with.
Further down the course.
All right so we've got this database D.S. training.
Now if we expand it you'll see here we've got diagrams tables views and so on.
What we're interested is in tables here this to subfolder system tables and full tables we're not going
to touch them any tables that we create that are for our use will be in the tables folder.
So right now it's empty.
Let's fix that up will quickly create a table and that is just to kind of spice things up.
And also to assess whether or not the database is working correctly.
So to create a table we're going to go to a new query there's a button here or you can just press control
and on your keyboard.
This brings up a blank window and here just fill along and type what I'm typing so we're going to type
create table test table and then bracket's normal brackets.
And here we're going to type in Tim lines nearly done name var char 100 and then comando forget the
combo here.
H.
Int.
OK.
So that is our first very first script in.
SAGAL I know right now it might seem to a lot of you might seem like something completely alien.
It's all right.
Right now we're just testing out so just copy this script and I will show you what to do next and what
we want to do is highlight this part of our workspace and click this execute button up at the top or
hit F5 on your keyboard.
Once you've executed that you should see a command successfully completed message at the bottom here
and now if you go to tables and you're right click and you click refresh you will see your new test
table appear here.
So that's good.
We've got a test table but right now it's empty.
How about we put in this table some values.
So we're going to write another two lines of code so just make some space and once again for long.
So insert into test table and then in brackets we're going to say name age and we're going to insert
values and the values are going to be mapped.
And a couple more.
OK so once we've tap this card once again same thing highlight the two new line of credit and click
execute.
There we go.
It says that three rows have been affected.
Now if we right click our test table and we select select top 1000 rows then what you will see here
ignore the script that's being created for you up there at the bottom in the results pane you will see
a table with three rows and two columns with names and ages which you have just put in.
So if you see that then your database is working correctly and your server is set up well and well done
.
You're ready to proceed with the rest of the course.
Now the second part is for those of you who are doing these exercises on your work your server.
What I wanted to warn you about is that you might find it a bit hard to get things running.
And the reason for that is that the infrastructure in organizations can be very complex.
I'm going to bring up a picture right now and this is common infrastructure set up in a lot of organizations
and doesn't matter what type of organization can be an oil refinery it can be a retail store it can
be a bank it can be either financial situations basically any large organization is very likely to have
this kind of set up of their infrastructure and what it's saying here is that the I.T. process is not
simple is broken up into elements and by the way if you already know all of this if you have an I.T.
background and feel free to skip the rest of the sectorial and move onto the next one.
However I do understand that people taking this course come from different backgrounds.
So I just wanted to quickly highlight what you should be prepared for.
So once some programs or some changes in the I.T. environment are or in the whole of the I-T of the
organization are created were originally created in the development environment so developers create
those programs those scripts those changes those designs they create that and then it is so it is stored
somewhere.
Then there are many intermediary steps for these elements of code and programs to get to the test server
where they're tested.
And this can take weeks months or sometimes even half a year or even a year for something to get to
the test server and then be tested.
And then once it's tested then it moves out into the production server and the production server is
generally the name for the server where things are live.
So transactions are happening.
Records are being updated.
Customers are viewing their invoices or they're making purchases and so on.
So before something gets to production has to go through all these steps and a why am I showing you
this.
Well because first of all I came across this one time myself in a very large organization.
I needed to set up a database just similar to that kind of database wasn't for training or was just
for data signs.
But the reason the issue that I was faced with was that there is no in this kind of legacy type of set
up over an organization that doesn't account for data science.
There may not be a slot where to put your data science database should it go into production should
be a test database should be a development database.
Will people making business decisions be relying on it.
If that's the case it has to be in production.
But on the other hand you're developing things should be in development.
So all of those problems all kind of questions might cause the person in charge of I.T. to be unsure
where to put your database and rightly so so be prepared for that.
And you just have to when you go to your manager or to your DBA you have to explain exactly what you
need that you need a training database.
In this case you won't nobody will be relying on this data for business decisions is just for your training
.
You need to be able to upload data you need to be able to create tables create store procedures manipulate
data and so on.
So basically do all these basic manipulations with data and there are two options here.
Either they will find a way to slot in your training database into the environment and that's great
.
In that case they'll provide you with all the associated credentials for you to be able to log in to
this database.
And in that case just go ahead and create that test table that we did at the start of the tutorial and
populated with those three rows just to make sure that the database is working well and the server is
set up correctly.
And the other option is that if they're not able to provide you with this training database then you
will have to install your own instance of a SQL server whether you can do it at work.
You once again you'll have to ask them or whether you'd have to do it on your own computer.
And in that case just refer to the very start of this tutorial.
So that's that.
Just wanted to make sure you're prepared for your conversation with your DBA or your manager if you
do decide to go down this pathway.